Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture you're going to learn about rendering now.
Many of you would have already done this gone up to the render menu and gone to render image or hit
F12.
And there we go rendering done.
Yeah well there's a few nuances to it so let's go ahead and find out some more.
Okay everybody welcome back.
So let's go ahead and just set things up.
Ready to render we've got the camera all set up we've got the lights set up we're not rendered mode at
the moment let's go ahead and switch across the rendered mode and by the way you can do that on a pie
menu in Blender as well I very press Z key this pie menu appears where we've got a different selection
of rendering options we do want rendered so I should leave it there.
Okay.
The first tab we're going to go into is the render tab and I'm also gonna make this area a little
bit wider so we can have a look.
Now the rendering engine that we're currently using is the Eevee engine and we've got two others that
we can pick from cycles will work straight out of the box but you will notice in general that it's slightly
unbalanced with the lighting now you may find at this point that your computer gets louder as the fans
ramp up cycles is a lot more intensive than eevee because it's a real time ray tracing engine rather
than a guessing engine and a kind of a cheaty engine but eevee is still wonderful for what we can get
done with it.
So if we select cycles it's right from the word go it has the right ambient occlusion it has the right
lighting it does reflections properly whereas eevee you have to tell it's all the that but we get a very
quick output from the word go.
Now you also have a ton of options with the Eevee engine and you have a ton of different options with
the cycles engine.
Now at this point you'll be feeling a little overwhelmed by the sheer choice on offer here but don't
worry we'll cover all of this later in the course.
But for now I'm going to leave it with eevee and I'm going to go down to the next tab not going to change
any of the other settings.
The next tab is about output.
Well let us start off with the resolution this is the resolution of the image itself.
Now 1920 by 1080.
Great.
We can set this as a screensaver if we want to.
If you wanted it has a four K image instead of setting the resolution accurately what you can do here
is set it 200 percent and that will be the same as rendering out at 4k.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
Let's go to render, render image and we get our first image out.
Oh dear what's going on here why is it so zoomed in.
Well it zoomed in because I'm running at 1080p so i do need to zoom out.
There we go.
There's the rest of our image.
Excellent.
I can go ahead here and image save as I'm going to call this.
Well I'm in the appropriate folder for me so that's fine save the image.
Off we go.
Now one of the things you can do whilst we're in this particular view which is if we hover over here
the image editor we can go ahead and change the slot number two slot two.
And what that enables us to do is render again and then flick between slot 1 in slot 2 or even another
slot and look at the differences.
So let's do that now and I'm going to do the same thing but this time switch my render engine across
to cycles.
Now you may be able to set your GPU to helping out your CPU you depends on your system what we can do
to check for go to edit preferences Oh and it's opened up a window elsewhere there we go and we have
here under the General tab under system we have cycles compute device.
Now I'm not going to go into the full details at the moment in the course there's much more to learn
later on but you can accelerate your rendering with cycles with CUDA with open C.L. or not all so at
the moment not at all would just use your processor in your machine if you've got another option here
you may be able to use a graphics card to help accelerate the rendering.
I'm not going to include and this is a new feature in 2.8.
The graphics card and the CPE working together because that would ruin the screen recording I'm currently
doing for you guys some other leave it set to my graphics card that I'm going to click save user preferences
and we'll have a much more detailed look at cycles later on in the course when we have a dedicated section
where we're going to use it an awful lot.
OK so that is all sorted that's go down and change the device to GPU you compute for me you might not
have the option or if you get any errors leave it as CPU I'm going to go to render and render image.
Now you'll notice that this takes significantly longer than Eevee did.
That's not to worry.
That's the nature of the beast.
Plus this is not set up and optimised for this type of rendering at the moment but we'll let it finish
off and we'll then compare the two.
OK.
So there we go.
We're just finishing off there and now we can go to the slots and pick slot one and pick slot two now
they're both the same model but they're dramatically different if I go over to the image I can just
that out and they're both called well I should really gone
well cycles and of course the other one will be eevee I'll rename that before I commit this.
And there we go.
That's looking pretty good.
And we can swap it back to eevee which is also looking really good now there are some things that will
stand out.
Couple of things that stand out straightaway is look at the bottom of the foot here.
I change that over to the slot two.
We see that we get a proper dark shadow around there.
In fact it looks like the whole thing's hovering on this side.
Might have to check that just in case I have lifted it up or even push the ground down.
That is possible.
But look this has far more detail in the shadows at the moment.
Whereas the Eevee one does not.
Now that is self-explanatory Eevee need setting up cycles will just work but Eevee is a lot quicker and
cycles is a lot slower in general there are ups and downs for both of them at this stage.
Don't worry.
Just go with Eevee so it's nice and quick and then later on.
We'll learn the differences that actually do make a difference when you come to rendering out your scene.
But there we go.
I've got my scene fully rendered and I've got on my hard drive.
I've got two pictures you know.
That means I can now share them and we'll find out more about sharing in the next lecture.